Mid-Atlantic Newspaper

Services, Inc.

2717 WN. Frent St., Harrisburg. Pa.

LEVITTOWN, PENNA.

RT 2 272

Courier Times (e)
Cire. 51,993

es 645- 9400

Continuing Education
-enroiim Iment up at Penn. State

A choice of subjects ranging
from: motorcycle safety
education to fir tree planting
helped boost enrollments in
Continuing Education programs
at.The Pennsy)vania State
University last year.

There were 133,327 students
working at 290 different
locations, a gain of 8,083
students and 25 locales over
1970-71, ,aceording to Floyd B.
Fischer, vice president for
continuing. education. at the
University. Over the last ten
years, enrollments have more
than doubled.

A total of 5,232 ppersons
served as instructors for the
programs with 1,167 of these
being from the faculty of the
University and the balance
coming from industry, business,
government and other schools
and colleges.

The largest ‘number of
students — 25,575 — ‘were
enrolled in programs held at
University Park. Other Penn
State campuses with par-
ticularly large enrollments
included: Altoona, 11,295;
Ogontz, 7,775; Delaware, 7,254;
and McKeesport, 6,748.

Motorcycle education was one
of the more unusual courses
sponsored by Continuing
> : 4

Release No.

Education last year in an effort
to improve operational safety.
A credit course featuring both
classroom and laboratory work
was developed for driver
training teachers.

The ‘fir tree’’ program
brought groups of prisioners
from the Rockview Correctional
Institution on field trips to
University Park to help prepare
them for positions with land-
scape contractors, the nursery
industry and garden centers.

On the other side of the law,
some 330 cadets from the State
Police Academy in Hershey

NEMSPAPER

TOL

DATE

PAGE

enrolled in University credit

courses to work toward their
baccalaureate degrees and a
law enforcement corrections
certificate.

Continuing education
specialists also ran a program
which trained 60 adult welfare
recipients, all of whom had
dependent children, as teacher
aides in Pittsburgh area schools
which had pledged them em-
ployment.
sored training at Elders Ridge
in Indiana County for under and
unemployed individuals in the
operation of mine and heavy
equipment. This program has
already graduated neaty 300
persons who are now earning
between $8,000 and $14,000 a
year.

Through its Pennsylvania
Technical Assistance Program
(PENNTAP), Continuing

They again spon-_

Education supplies technical .

~‘information to businesses,
‘schools,‘ and government to .

improve their operations. In
one case. last year, PENNTAP
helped a plastics company
change production methods nd
reduced a 40-hour Process to
five minutes.

Another highly praised ser- |

vice last year was undertaken
fwith the Pennsylvania Heart
Association. A coronary heart
tisk screening program
processed 3,776 people in four
central Pennsylvania counties.
Participants with high-risk
factors were alerted to their
problem and encouraged to take
corrective action.

Other unusual programs
promoted effective teaching in
church sabbath schools; in-
formed the residents of Berks
County on such community
issues as education, govern-
ment, health, safety and
ecology; and in the wake of
Hurricane Agnes supplied
personnel trained in ciy,
defense by University ex

. programs:

\

Ww PNM oO

‘snewnng vere pepe “

